---
layout: post
title: 'Converting old Blogger or old hosting URLs to the new style using Qwen3-Coder'
date: '2026-04-11T17:48:00.000-04:00'
author: Thomas Harold
category:
- Tech
tags:
- LLM
- Qwen3
draft: true
---

doing development with Claude Code, but using a local LLM to keep from spending my Claude.ai subscription tokens

technical specs:

macbook pro with the m3 max chip and 64GB of RAM
running omlx (insert link to omlx https://omlx.ai/) locally
running Qwen3-Coder-30B-A3B-Instruct-MLX-6bit LLM model
max context window is 200000
max tokens is 100000

overall token generation performance is around 22-25 tokens per second, prefill is 214-250 for non-cached prefill.  the cache efficiency is running at 97% for the prefill tokens, which is giving decent savings and speed.

the model does okay but not great at keeping track of what I want, it's definitely not as capable as Sonnet inside of Claude Code.  I have to break the problem down into smaller steps and be explicit in order for it not to run off and generate something that doesn't work.  it also keeps forgetting to look at CLAUDE.md and its memory files about my preferences.  Many of the commits in my blog repo are missing the co-author line even though I've specifically told it in the CLAUDE.md (insert link to https://github.com/tgharold/blog/blob/master/CLAUDE.md) file.

the [convert_blogger_to_jekyll_url_mappings.py](https://github.com/tgharold/blog/blob/master/convert_blogger_to_jekyll_url_mappings.py) was mostly generated by the Qwen3-Coder model.  But if you look at the [various commits to that file](https://github.com/tgharold/blog/commits/master/convert_blogger_to_jekyll_url_mappings.py), you will see that I had to walk it step-by-step. it would have been fastter for me to write the script, but I'm still learning Python and I needed it to show me how.



